b'Balance of power between state organs needs to be debated..Balance of power between state organs needs to be debated.\nTHE Appellate Division\xe2\x80\x99s dismissal of the government\xe2\x80\x99s appeal against a High Court verdict, which in May 2016 declared the 16th amendment to the constitution, passed in September 2014, unconstitutional is both a legal and moral defeat of the Awami League government. The scrapping of the 16th amendment, which empowered the parliament to remove Supreme Court judges for misbehaviour and incapacity, as it appears so far pending the government\xe2\x80\x99s next course of action till it receives the full verdict, vests the power for judge\xe2\x80\x99s removal back in the president subject to the recommendations of the Supreme Judicial Council composed of the chief justice and two next senior judges, as it was effected through the fifth amendment of June 2011. The fourth amendment of January 1975, however, had the power vested absolutely in the president and until then, such power, keeping to the constitution as it was in adoption in 1972, lay with the parliament. In what has happened regarding the separation of the power between the judiciary, the executive and the legislative, the issue of supremacy of one organ of the state over the other seems to have so far featured prominently while there should a balance of power between the organs.\n\nThe reaction that the Awami League government has so far showed in this regard, with the prime minister asking fellows in the cabinet to prepare for a discussion in the parliament, the session of which is scheduled for resumption on July 9, on the Appellate Division\xe2\x80\x99s judgement, appears to be predictable. Several ministers, when they heard of the news at the weekly cabinet meeting on Monday, are reported to have instantly criticised the High Court verdict and Appellate Division\xe2\x80\x99s subsequent dismissal of the government appeal against the verdict. They believe that the court is not supposed to scrap an act of the parliament. The member of the parliament are likely to show similar intimidating reactions. They seem to have forgotten that following government support, the same court in May 2011 scrapped the constitutional provision seeking elections under a non-party caretaker government, which was enacted in the parliament in 1996 by all the parties concerned. The incumbents were happy about the scrapping of the caretaker government law because they wanted it to be repealed in partisan interest. This time, they appear unhappy because they wanted to control the judiciary by the parliament.\n\nHaving said this, what we feel is that the nation now genuinely needs a balance of powers between the three organs of the state, not any one organ\xe2\x80\x99s supremacy over the other. It is time that the judiciary, the political class and the people understood that any of the three being on top of two others could lead to abuse and misuse of powers because of an unbalanced power-sharing, in all likelihood, leading the nation through a blind alley. It is, therefore, time that the issue of the balance of power between the organs should be opened to debates in the judiciary, the political class and society.\n\nMore about:'