b'Unprecedented disregard for the life and dignity of workers..Unprecedented disregard for the life and dignity of workers.\nTHE government has shown an unprecedented disregard for the life and dignity of apparel workers by unjustly accusing the dead workers of an apparel factory at Gazipur. Thirteen workers died and 52 others, including pedestrians, became injured as a boiler exploded at Multifabs Ltd in the place on Tuesday. Three operators of the boiler who died in the explosion are, as New Age reported on Thursday, named accused in a lawsuit filed with the Joydebpur police. The lawsuit alleged that the three had started the boiler ignoring safety concerns. However, according to the chief inspector of boiler, the fire and explosion took place as the boiler was running beyond its shelf life. The inspector also said that the factory management was running the boiler manually bypassing the electric safety system. It was the responsibility of the factory inspection and establishment department to oversee that no boiler is in operation beyond its shelf life while the factory management is legally obliged to follow related laws and regulations. When the failure of all authorities are in plain sight, it is outrageous that the government has absolved the negligent factory management and blamed victims of explosion who were merely following the order.\n\nIn the past five years, according to records of the Bangladesh Institute of Labour Studies, at least 69 workers were killed and 237 workers were injured from boiler explosion in different factories. In two incidents of boiler explosion in 2017, 20 workers were killed in Dinajpur and Kushtia. The inspection mechanisms that are in place to prevent such death proved to be inadequate. There are only five inspectors with the DIFE to inspect and certify more than 5,000 boilers in operation in the whole country. The global initiatives such as Accord and Alliance formed in the aftermath of the Rana Plaza building collapse are also there to inspect apparel factories. However, their inspection is focused on structural, fire and electrical safety of the factory, leaving operations of boilers outside the purview. The boiler explosion and fire at Multifab Ltd proves that Accord too has fallen short of safeguarding workers\xe2\x80\x99 lives. It is in this context that labour rights organisations have been demanding that the Boilers Act 1921 should be amended in accordance with the historical changes and transformation of the industrial sector and human resources are strengthened to improve the boiler inspection system.\n\nMore importantly, the routine death of workers in the apparel sector is not merely a question of diligent factory inspection. The culture of impunity that the factory owners enjoy encourages their criminally negligent behaviour. Labour organisers, as well as people at large, must, therefore, immediately decry such legally flawed and morally atrocious step of the government to name and blame dead workers for their own death and demand that the factory management should be immediately brought to book.\n\nMore about: apparel\n\nworkers'