b'Authorities late in waking up to migrant worker woes..Authorities late in waking up to migrant worker woes.\nTHE detention of at least 328 undocumented Bangladeshis in Malaysia, in a crackdown by its immigration department on foreign workers staying their illegally, leaves the government with a few tasks to attend to. The Malaysian authorities launched a large-scale operation immediately after their deadline for foreign workers to apply for temporary enforcement card, or e-card which is a validation to allow foreign workers with no valid document to work there, expired by the turn of June. The Bangladesh authorities say, as New Age reported on Sunday, that more than 2,50,000 Bangladeshis have so far become legal under the rehiring programme, which began in February 2016 and will offer chances for illegal Bangladeshi workers to become legal until December. Only 23 per cent, or 1,61,056 foreign immigrants, from all countries in Malaysia registered two hours till the deadline, as the Malay Mail Online reported on Saturday, which is much lower than the original target of 6,00,000 illegal immigrants in all. As the Malaysian authorities are reported to be hunting down the illegal immigrants in raids to be carried out on a daily basis, more Bangladeshis staying in Malaysia without valid documents could be in trouble.\n\nThe situation is likely to worsen as the temporary enforcement cards will expire in the middle of February next year and the cardholder must obtain valid travel documents for the purpose of obtaining work permits. While the Bangladesh authorities need to attend to the detention of Bangladeshi workers there, early and earnestly, they also need to step up to the plate in managing the overall issue. The Malay Mail Online reports the Malaysian authorities to have given various reasons for the detained illegal immigrants not having applied for the enforcement card and not knowing the deadline for the application was one among them. The Malaysian authorities said that they had requested cooperation from respective embassies of the illegal immigrants to make announcement about the enforcement cards. This leaves the space for inference that the Bangladesh mission in Malaysia might not have acted urgently and earnestly enough on Malaysia\xe2\x80\x99s decision to flush out illegal immigrants. If so many Bangladeshi workers, staying in Malaysia illegally, are detained in just one day\xe2\x80\x99s operation, with the raids continuing, more Bangladeshis might be in trouble. The situation will not only affect the Bangladeshi workers now living there illegally and their families living in Bangladesh, but it will also have a serious bearing on the future recruitment of Bangladeshis there, with a spillover effect on the situation of remittances.\n\nBangladesh authorities in Malaysia on Saturday said that they were yet to be officially notified about the number of Bangladeshies receiving the enforcement card and being detained. But this could be no excuse for their wasting more time in affording legal and consular support to the people detained by the immigration authorities and to people who have the enforcement cards but would be in need of valid travel documents after the expiry of enforcement cards. The government must sort out the issues urgently.\n\nMore about: Bangladesh\n\nMalaysia\n\nMigration\n\nworkers'