b'Comprehensive measures needed to curb corruption..Comprehensive measures needed to curb corruption.\nTHE global corruption perceptions index for the year 2013, released by the Bangladesh chapter of the Berlin-based Transparency International at a press conference in the capital Dhaka, ranked Bangladesh 16th from the bottom among 177 countries. The prime minister\xe2\x80\x99s exhortation to top bureaucrats on Sunday, as New Age reported on Monday, to check corruption and ensure services to people without hassles from government\xe2\x80\x99s service providing agencies, ironically is a testimony to the fact that it is still among the countries mired in rampant corruption. Her observation that as salaries of government employees have been adequately increased officials and other employees should not indulge in corruption and that they have under the circumstance greater responsibility to check corruption devolves upon secretaries of ministries is justified and, as such, we welcome it. However, we feel important to point out here is that corrupt practice by the government officials is almost impossible, if the politicians heading different ministries keep away from corruption. It needs to be pointed out that corruption, particularly the high profile ones, such as, the railway recruitment bribery, share market scam, Hallmark and Destiny money laundering, etc. cannot take place without an unholy alliance between a bunch of unscrupulous businessmen, some corrupt officials and a section of immoral politicians in power.\n\nBesides, the government has a predilection to come up with the clich\xc3\xa9d argument that it is their predecessors who are to blame for the pervasive corruption of the day, and thus the country cannot get rid of the problem overnight. There are, after all, widespread allegations that the government has hardly been serious and sincere about curbing corruption ever since it assumed power. There are specific allegations that the organised corrupt practices by the said unholy alliances of the businessmen, politicians and civil bureaucrats are responsible for the extremely higher prices of constructing roads, bridges and flyovers at the cost of public exchequers. In defiance of enormous criticism from conscious citizens and the media, it withdrew thousands of cases, many of which involved corruption, lodged earlier against the ruling party leaders and activists. One can also refer to the fact that the Anti-Corruption Commission has continued to fail to come out of its lackadaisical approach to fight high-profile corruption. The latest amendment to the Anti-Corruption Commission Act with the controversial provision that the commission must take permission of the government before filing any graft case against any public official has reinforced the idea that the incumbents are unwilling to help the anti-graft body effectively fight the menace.\n\nIt is needless to over emphasise that corruption not only significantly hinders the expected growth of the economy but also illegally benefits a few at the expense of the rest, a problem that may end up pushing society into a permanent chaos. The government would be well-advised to put a renewed effort to crack down on money laundering, cleanup political financing and build more transparent public institutions. For that to happen, the prime minister would require to take comprehensive measures on the one hand and empowering the watchdogs on the other.\n\nMore about:'