b'Myamnmar still non committal to resolve Rohingya crisis..Myamnmar still non committal to resolve Rohingya crisis.\nMYNAMAR\xe2\x80\x99S reluctance to conclusively respond to the sustainable Rohingya repatriation plan that Dhaka has proposed in May is indeed disappointing. The proposal came in the context of a protracted military operation against Rohingyas in northern Rakhine, Myanmar. In the face of violence, at least 74, 000 minority Muslims entered Bangladesh since October, 2016. The government in its proposal urged Myanmar to start sustainable repatriation of its nationals from Bangladesh by creating a proper environment that would enable them to return to their ancestral homes in Rakhain. However, Aung San Suu Kyi-led government have been quite brazen in its diplomatic response to Bangladesh\xe2\x80\x99s request. In January, it has sent a special envoy with no clear mandate to discuss the Rohingya refugee crisis. In a visit to Bangladesh, the national security advisor of Myanmar on Sunday has reiterated, his government\xe2\x80\x99s intent to only accept nationals who have entered Bangladesh in October 2016. The advisor has also added that any repatriation is subject to verification of their citisenship. In the context of the neighbourly support that Bangladesh has provided for Myanmar in combating cross border crime and hosting Rohingyas, this conditional commitment proves to be a hostile diplomatic gesture.\n\nBangladesh has been directly paying the price of the internal conflict in Rakhaine and Myanmar\xe2\x80\x99s unwilling national drug policy for decades now. While there are historical evidences dating back to the 8th Century AD that ties Rohingya community to Rakhine state, Myanmar allegedly justifies its persecution of the Rohingya by claiming that they have no legal residence in the country. In 2015, the government withdrew white cards for Rohingya as part of a plan to expel them from the country and cancel their citisenship under the 1982 law. As a result, there are some 3 lakh Myanmar nationals living in a refugee-like-situation in makeshift shelters in Cox\xe2\x80\x99s Bazar for years. The Myanmar government had repeatedly defied international calls to resolve the refugee crisis and refused to keep its commitment regarding repatriation of over 9,000 refugees from Bangladesh in 2014. On the other hand, as many experts suggest that Myanmar\xe2\x80\x99s narcotics industry is expanding and making business creating demand for methamphetamines in neighbouring Bangladesh. Except for sporadic arrest the Myanmar government played a highly questionable role in drug control. It is quite evident from the above scenario that the Myanmar government has been anything but neighbourly towards Bangladesh.\n\nTo attain an effective bilateral relationship with Bangladesh and to show that it has regards for the universal human rights charter, the current government of Myanmar has to resolve the root cause of Rphingya crisis that is to settle the citizenship dispute for the said community. Taking into account the existing reports on human rights abuse and unwilling drug control programmes of Myanmar, the international bodies should also take Myanmar to task and demand answer for its reported inaction.\n\nMore about:'