b'Deplorable fate of Savar Tannery Industrial Estate..Deplorable fate of Savar Tannery Industrial Estate.\nTHE Tannery Industrial Estate at Savar has become the bane of its existence. Infrastructures installed to relocate the tanneries from Hazaribagh to the new industrial estate have been badly damaged before they are being fully used, as New Age reported on Wednesday. The roads built and pipes installed as part of the drainage system constructed by the Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Corporation are too narrow to give service to the 155 tanneries expected to function in the area. The pipes and motors of the central effluent treatment plant were also found damaged. The measures to prevent environmental pollution are reported not to be in place. All parties, BSCIC and the Bangladesh Tanners\xe2\x80\x99 Association, however, blamed each other for the situation. The government, on the one hand, claimed that the lack of maintenance on part of the tanners damaged the infrastructure, even intentionally misused the drainage system while the Tanners\xe2\x80\x99 Association representative, on the other hand, directly blamed the government corruption in the construction process. The owners association even predicted that environmental pollution will even be worst at Savar if fresh construction is not initiated. This current state of affair of the industrial estate raises question about the government\xe2\x80\x99s ability and tannery owners\xe2\x80\x99 willingness to successfully implement the relocation project.\n\nIt is not just the physical infrastructure of the park at Savar, but the labour power is also suffering from the ill-managed relocation process. Tannery owners have sent around 15,000 workers into forced leave saying that they have no production after the factories were relocated from Hazaribagh in the capital to Savar on the city outskirt. The workers, however, alleged that the owners were using the relocation issue as an opportunity to terminate old workers who would get a huge amount of money in termination benefits. The labour organisers advocating the rights of tannery workers termed such termination a clear violation of the labour law. Infrastructural problem coupled with labour unrest turned the relocation into a crisis when it was expected that the process would help the industry to excel and improve the working condition for the workers. The government should address the allegation of corruption that reportedly effected the construction and maintenance of the industrial estate and negotiate with the tanners that they do not sabotage the relocation process.\n\nTannery industry is the second biggest foreign export earning sector of Bangladesh. Any negative development in the sector will, therefore, directly impact the national economy. The government must immediately investigate the alleged act of sabotage by the tanners and the corruption of the project officials. Green activists and labour rights advocates should continue with their campaign to ensure that worker concerns and environmental issues are addressed at the Tannery Industrial Estate at Savar.\n\nMore about:'